RHOAIENG-4198: Initial commit for kserve perf metrics (#396)
opendatahub-io/opendatahub-documentation: modules/viewing-performance-metrics-for-deployed-model.adoc

:_module-type: PROCEDURE

> [id="viewing-performance-metrics-for-model-server_{context}"]

Reviewer: Should the title and id be the same?

= Viewing performance metrics for a deployed model

[role='_abstract']

You can monitor the following metrics for a specific model that is deployed on the single-model serving platform:

* *Number of requests* - The number of HTTP requests that have failed or succeeded for a specific model.
* *Average response time (ms)* - The average time it takes a specific model to respond to requests.

> * *CPU utilization (%)* - The percentage of the CPU's capacity that is currently being used by a specific model.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* *CPU utilization (%)* - The percentage of the model deployment's CPU's limit that is currently being used by a specific model.
```

> * *Memory utilization (%)* - The percentage of the system's memory that is currently being used by a specific model.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* *Memory utilization (%)* - The percentage of the  model deployment's memory limit that is currently being used by a specific model.
```

Author: @VedantMahabaleshwarkar What does _model deployment_ mean here?

Reviewer 2: Pod if there's only 1 replica, pods if there are multiple replicas. But what I specifically mean is the Openshift `Deployment` that represents the model. The deployment will have resource `requests` and `limits`. The % we show is the % relative to the `limit` that is set in the deployment

Author: @VedantMahabaleshwarkar I think that model deployment might sound confusing - proposing an alternative, let me know your thoughts: 

* *CPU utilization (%)*: The percentage of the CPU limit per model replica that is currently utilized by a specific model.
* *Memory utilization (%)* - The percentage of memory limit per model replica that is currently utilized by a specific model.

Based my assumption on this setting: 

<img width="810" alt="Screenshot 2024-08-08 at 9 53 06 AM" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/1f1ffe3e-69c4-4e60-ba17-3fe8b7febcd4">

You can specify a time range and a refresh interval for these metrics to help you determine, for example, when the peak usage hours are and how the model is performing at a specified time.

.Prerequisites
* You have installed {productname-long}.

* On the OpenShift cluster where {productname-short} is installed, user workload monitoring is enabled.

* You have logged in to {productname-short}.
ifndef::upstream[]
* If you are using specialized {productname-short} groups, you are part of the user group or admin group (for example, {oai-user-group} or {oai-admin-group}) in OpenShift.
endif::[]
ifdef::upstream[]
* If you are using specialized {productname-short} groups, you are part of the user group or admin group (for example, {odh-user-group} or {odh-admin-group}) in OpenShift.
endif::[]

> * The following dashboard configuration options are set to their default values as shown:

Reviewer: the default values
